Update CHANGELOG.md with v3.8.0 changes (#940)
vmware/terraform-provider-vcd: CHANGELOG.md

* **New Resource:** `vcd_catalog_access_control` that allows sharing a catalog with users, groups, or Orgs ([#915](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/915))
* **New Resource**: `vcd_subscribed_catalog` that allows subscribing to a published catalog ([#916](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/916))
* **New Data Source**: `vcd_subscribed_catalog` that allows reading a subscribed catalog ([#916](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/916))
* **New Data Source**: `vcd_task` that allows reading a VCD task ([#916](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/916))

### IMPROVEMENTS
* Add attribute `metadata_entry` to the following data sources:
  `vcd_catalog`, `vcd_catalog_media`, `vcd_independent_disk`, `vcd_network_direct`, `vcd_network_isolated`,
  `vcd_network_isolated_v2`, `vcd_network_routed`, `vcd_network_routed_v2`, `vcd_org`, `vcd_org_vdc`, `vcd_provider_vdc`,
  `vcd_storage_profile`, `vcd_vapp`, `vcd_vapp_vm`. This new attribute replaces `metadata`
  to add support of metadata visibility (user access levels), all the available types and domains for every metadata

>   entry. ([#917](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/917))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  entry ([#917](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/917))
```

* Add attribute `metadata_entry` to the following resources:
  `vcd_catalog`, `vcd_catalog_media`, `vcd_independent_disk`, `vcd_network_direct`, `vcd_network_isolated`,
  `vcd_network_isolated_v2`, `vcd_network_routed`, `vcd_network_routed_v2`, `vcd_org`, `vcd_org_vdc`, `vcd_vapp`,
  `vcd_vapp_vm`. This new attribute replaces `metadata` to add support of metadata visibility (user access levels),

>   all the available types and domains for every metadata entry. ([#917](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/917))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  all the available types and domains for every metadata entry ([#917](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/917))
```

* Resource and data source `vcd_org_vdc` introduce new field `edge_cluster_id` to specify NSX-T
  Edge Cluster for VDC ([#921](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/921))
* Resources, that are removed outside of Terraform control are removed from state and recreated
  instead of returning error ([#925](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/925))
  * `vcd_edgegateway_settings`
  * `vcd_vapp_network`
  * `vcd_vm_internal_disk`
  * `vcd_nsxv_dhcp_relay`
  * `vcd_vapp_static_routing`
  * `vcd_vapp_nat_rules`
  * `vcd_vapp_firewall_rules`
  * `vcd_vapp_access_control`
  * `vcd_nsxt_alb_edgegateway_service_engine_group`
  * `vcd_org_vdc`
  * `vcd_org_user`
  * `vcd_external_network`
* Resource and data source `vcd_nsxt_network_dhcp` support Isolated networks, different DHCP modes
  ('EDGE', 'NETWORK', 'RELAY') and lease time ([#929](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/929))
* Add the new attributes `vapp_template_id`, `boot_image_id` to the resources `vcd_vapp_vm` and `vcd_vm` to be able
  to use unique URNs to reference vApp Templates and Media items through data sources, to build strong dependencies

>   in Terraform configuration. ([#931](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/931))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  in Terraform configuration ([#931](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/931))
```

### BUG FIXES
* Fix bug where VM was power cycled multiple times during creation ([#901](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/901))
* Fix bug where storage_profile is ignored for empty (non template) VM ([#901](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/901))
* `resource/vcd_nsxt_alb_edgegateway_service_engine_group` field `reserved_virtual_services` accepts
  "0" as value ([#923](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/923))

> * Fixed a bug in `resource/vcd_vapp` that would prevent to Power off vApp when previous state was

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fix a bug in `resource/vcd_vapp` that prevented Power Off vApp when previous state was
```

  `power_on=true` ([#932](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/932))

### DEPRECATIONS
* Deprecate `vcd_external_network` in favor of `vcd_external_network_v2` ([#903](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/903))
* Deprecate `default_vm_sizing_policy_id` field in `vcd_org_vdc` resource and data source. This field is misleading as it
  can contain not only VM Sizing Policies but also VM Placement Policies or vGPU Policies.
  Its replacement is the `default_compute_policy_id` attribute ([#904](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/904))
* Deprecate attribute `metadata` in favor of `metadata_entry` in the following data sources:
  `vcd_catalog`, `vcd_catalog_media`, `vcd_catalog_vapp_template`, `vcd_independent_disk`, `vcd_network_direct`,
  `vcd_network_isolated`, `vcd_network_isolated_v2`, `vcd_network_routed`, `vcd_network_routed_v2`, `vcd_org`,

>   `vcd_org_vdc`, `vcd_provider_vdc`, `vcd_storage_profile`, `vcd_vapp`, `vcd_vapp_vm`. ([#917](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/917))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  `vcd_org_vdc`, `vcd_provider_vdc`, `vcd_storage_profile`, `vcd_vapp`, `vcd_vapp_vm` ([#917](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/917))
```

* Deprecate attribute `metadata` in favor of `metadata_entry` in the following resources:
  `vcd_catalog`, `vcd_catalog_media`, `vcd_catalog_vapp_template`, `vcd_independent_disk`, `vcd_network_direct`,
  `vcd_network_isolated`, `vcd_network_isolated_v2`, `vcd_network_routed`, `vcd_network_routed_v2`, `vcd_org`,

>   `vcd_org_vdc`, `vcd_vapp`, `vcd_vapp_vm`. ([#917](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/917))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  `vcd_org_vdc`, `vcd_vapp`, `vcd_vapp_vm` ([#917](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/917))
```

* Deprecate attribute `catalog_item_metadata` in favor of `metadata_entry` in the `vcd_catalog_item` resource
  and data source. ([#917](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/917))
* Deprecate `template_name` in favor of `vapp_template_id` in `vcd_vapp_vm` and `vcd_vm` to be able to use unique URNs instead
  of catalog dependent names ([#931](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/931))
* Deprecate `boot_image` in favor of `boot_image_id` in `vcd_vapp_vm` and `vcd_vm` to be able to use URNs instead
  of catalog dependent names ([#931](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/931))
* Deprecate `catalog_name` in favor of `vapp_template_id` or `boot_image_id`, which don't require a catalog name anymore ([#931](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/931))

> * Data source `vcd_nsxt_edge_cluster` deprecates `vdc` field in favor of 3 new fields to define

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Data source `vcd_nsxt_edge_cluster` deprecates `vdc` field in favor of three new fields to define
```

>   NSX-T Edge Cluster lookup scope - `vdc_id`, `vdc_group_id`, and `provider_vdc_id` ([#921](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/921))

Reviewer: I can't seem to find a changelog entry for these three new fields? If they are new, they should be listed not only in deprecations section.

Author: This line was in "improvements" but I was told to move it to deprecations

* All non-NSX-V resources and data sources use the new SDK signatures with Context and Diagnostics ([#895](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/895))
* Refactor VM Creation code, which should result in identifiable parts creation for all types of
  VMs. Behind the scenes, there are 4 different types of VMs with respective different API calls as
  listed below ([#901](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/901))
  * `vcd_vapp_vm` built from vApp template
  * `vcd_vm` built from vApp template
  * `vcd_vapp_vm` built without vApp template (empty VM)
  * `vcd_vm` built without vApp template (empty VM)
* Bump Go to 1.19 in `go.mod` as the minimum required version. ([#902](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/902), [#916](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/916))
* Code documentation formatting is adjusted using Go 1.19 (`make fmt`) ([#902](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/902))
* Adjust GitHub actions in pipeline to use the latest code ([#902](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/902))
* `staticcheck` switched version naming from `2021.1.2` to `v0.3.3` in downloads section. This PR

>   also updates the code to fetch correct staticcheck. ([#902](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/902))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  also updates the code to fetch correct staticcheck ([#902](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/902))
```

* package `io/ioutil` is deprecated as of Go 1.16. `staticcheck` started complaining about usage of
  deprecated packages. As a result this PR switches packages to either `io` or `os` (still the same
  functions are used) ([#902](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/902))

> * Drop support for EOL VCD 10.2.x ([#903](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/903))

Reviewer: Please move this bullet point to the top of the list (as it may be one of the most important for some users).

Author: It is already at the top of the list. Please refresh

* Add attribute `metadata_entry` to the following data sources:
  `vcd_catalog`, `vcd_catalog_media`, `vcd_independent_disk`, `vcd_network_direct`, `vcd_network_isolated`,
  `vcd_network_isolated_v2`, `vcd_network_routed`, `vcd_network_routed_v2`, `vcd_org`, `vcd_org_vdc`, `vcd_provider_vdc`,
  `vcd_storage_profile`, `vcd_vapp`, `vcd_vapp_vm`. This new attribute replaces `metadata`
  to add support of metadata visibility (user access levels), all the available types and domains for every metadata
  entry. ([#917](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/917))
* Add attribute `metadata_entry` to the following resources:
  `vcd_catalog`, `vcd_catalog_media`, `vcd_independent_disk`, `vcd_network_direct`, `vcd_network_isolated`,
  `vcd_network_isolated_v2`, `vcd_network_routed`, `vcd_network_routed_v2`, `vcd_org`, `vcd_org_vdc`, `vcd_vapp`,
  `vcd_vapp_vm`. This new attribute replaces `metadata` to add support of metadata visibility (user access levels),
  all the available types and domains for every metadata entry. ([#917](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/917))

> * Add `placement_policy_id` attribute to `vcd_vapp_vm` and `vcd_vm` resource and data source,

Reviewer 2: Sometimes the barrier between Feature and Improvement is fuzzy to me, I noticed I placed this inside Features, but  there's
```
Add `vm_placement_policy_ids` attribute to `vcd_org_vdc`
```
in Improvements section.
Should we move this one into Improvements?

## IMPROVEMENTS
* Resources and data sources `vcd_vapp_vm` and `vcd_vm` have new computed fields `status` and
  `status_text` ([#901](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/901))
* Add `vm_placement_policy_ids` attribute to `vcd_org_vdc` resource and data source to assign existing
  VM Placement Policies to VDCs ([#904](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/904), [#911](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/911))
* Add `default_compute_policy_id` attribute to `vcd_org_vdc` resource and data source to specify a default
  VM Sizing Policy, VM Placement Policy or vGPU Policy for the VDC ([#904](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/904), [#911](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/911))
* Add attributes `href`, `vapp_template_list`, `media_item_list`, and `publishing_url` to `vcd_catalog` resource and data source to show published items ([#916](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/916))
* Add `subscribed_catalog` to examples ([#916](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/916))

> * Upgrade Terraform SDK dependency to v2.24.1 ([#920](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/920), [#930](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/930))

Reviewer 2: Improvement or note?

> * Data source `vcd_nsxt_edge_cluster` deprecated `vdc` field in favor of 3 new fields to define

Reviewer 2: Should this be rephrased? Or moved to deprecations?

  ('EDGE', 'NETWORK', 'RELAY') and lease time ([#929](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/929))
* Add the new attributes `vapp_template_id`, `boot_image_id` to the resources `vcd_vapp_vm` and `vcd_vm` to be able
  to use unique URNs to reference vApp Templates and Media items through data sources, to build strong dependencies
  in Terraform configuration. ([#931](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/931))

## BUG FIXES
* Fix bug where VM was power cycled multiple times during creation ([#901](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/901))
* Fix bug where storage_profile is ignored for empty (non template) VM ([#901](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/901))
* `resource/vcd_nsxt_alb_edgegateway_service_engine_group` field `reserved_virtual_services` accepts
  "0" as value ([#923](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/923))
* Fixed a bug in `resource/vcd_vapp` that would prevent to Power off vApp when previous state was
  `power_on=true` ([#932](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/932))

## DEPRECATIONS

> Deprecate `vcd_external_network` in favor of `vcd_external_network_v2` ([#903](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/903))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Deprecate `vcd_external_network` in favor of `vcd_external_network_v2` ([#903](https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/pull/903))
```

> * Deprecated `default_vm_sizing_policy_id` field in `vcd_org_vdc` resource and data source. This field is misleading as it

Reviewer 2: As a general comment, probably we should align all verb tenses.

Author: Done
